The next thing we wanna do is, we wanna
create a middleware that will sit in front
of any route that we do not want someone
who is not authenticated accessing.
Basically you cannot hit this
route unless you have signed up,
made an account, got a Json Web
token sent us a Json Web token.
The Json Web token checked out it, gave us
back a real ID that matches who you say
you are and
then you can access this route.
So that's what this
middleware is gonna do.
And we can put it in front of any
route that we want that to happen,
which basically means
everything in the database.
You wanna access anything in a database,
you got to be signed in,
just like any traditional app.
So that's what we're gonna do.
So let's go back to our auth and
we're gonna just sort of say,
export const protect,
you can call whatever you want.
I'm gonna call it protect, it's gonna be
a middleware, it doesn't take any options.
So I'm not gonna make it a function
that returns a function.
And if it kind of just walked through,
I kind of have the code here.
There's a few weird things going on and
I just really wanna explain that because
even now, they're still very weird to me.
But I know why we do them, but
they're still just very weird.
So but like I said,
because you are the one making the server,
you're making the rules.
You're saying if you want
to authenticate with me,
you have to pass me something
on the authorization header.
All right, so let's do that.
And I'll talk about what
bearer means in a minute.
So I'm gonna say const bearer equals,
we need the rec and
res, request.headers.authorization.
Express lowercase is all the headers for
us, so we don't have to, but
most headers are capitalized but
were expressed as lowercase them for us so
they're easy to work with.
So I wanna get this thing caught bearer.
There's an authentication design
pattern or a scheme in HTTP,
there's so many of them, you got API keys.
You got basic all you have,
there's just so many things,
one of them is called a bearer.
Bearer is just basically like,
it's a generic way of
describing someone having
the ability to send up a token.
And that token can be
of any type of token.
It could be a JSON web token,
it could be a API key, an access token.
But bearer just describes
this person sent in a token.
So we're gonna use a bearer token.
What does that actually
mean in practicality?
It just means you literally put
the word bearer in front of your token.
That's it, yeah, it's silly.
I guess it's kinda like,
do you use a anchor tag in a form?
Because it's technically correct or
do you use a button?
Probably a button even though I guess
the anchor tag is semantically correct.
It's one of those things is you just
this is just for semantic at this point.
I bet there's more to it, but
I'm not a security expert.
So, yeah,
we're gonna use a bearer token here.
And basically, we're just gonna
check every step along the way.
If you don't meet a certain requirement,
we're just gonna 401 [INAUDIBLE]
which means not authorized.
401 is the status code for not authorized.
So in this case of, bearer token.
You didn't send one up,
you don't use get access?
I don't think so.
So I can say res.status 401 res.
Whatever I wanna send back.
If you want your API, send it back
messages that show up on your UI screen
and you will send a message back.
It depends on what you want.
I'm just gonna send a message back and
I'm gonna be like,
message not authorized,
or something like that.
And then I need to put a return here,
at least in my case.
Otherwise, it'll just keep going
to whatever's next down here.
So I gotta put a return.
So I'm gonna just gonna stop here and
then we're gonna hook this up and
then we're gonna see it run, and
then we'll fill out the rest later.
So I'm gonna save that, I have protect.
What I want to do now is go to index Ts,
I'm sorry, server Ts.
And right here in front of
the router on the slash API.
I wanna protect this whole router.
I don't want anyone accessing these
routes unless they're authenticated.
So I'm gonna save protect like that.
It's gonna import it for
me and I'm gonna hit comma.
I'm gonna do that.
Mine auto import it like that.
So you wanna import your
protect from modules off.
And then you wanna add it before
your router after slash API.
So now anyone tries to go
to anything slash API.
Before we let you access these handlers
over here, you gotta get past protect.
And right now protect is rejecting
anything that doesn't have a barrel
token on it.
So let's see if we can test that.
Stop my server, start my server.
That didn't stop it.
That did something else, there we go.
And then now what I'm gonna do
is go to my thunder client and
I'm just gonna try to go
to slash API product.
I don't have anything in the headers,
I don't have authorization here,
I don't have, this thing is using
bearer right here are off too.
But I don't have anything here and bear.
So I can just send this request and
you can see I get back 401, unauthorized,
message not authorized.
Exactly what I said back.
That's our middleware.
That's protect doing that.
It's like, no,
you didn't send anything up.